## Federated health ML systems survey
Data privacy concerns and the infeasibility of sending data to a centralized location for analysis often pose challenges in collaborative healthcare research ventures. Federated and distributed research networks are useful in facilitating cross-site research in such cases. Existing systems offer varying levels of privacy, machine learning algorithms, levels of extensibility to their framework, and other features. Some idiosyncratic systems pertain to certain settings in healthcare research, such as neuroimaging or genomic data. An ideal deployed healthcare research network should be able to handle data of varying formats, allow for localized storage and federated learning with a variety of machine learning algorithms, offer an intuitive method of interaction (user interface or API), and offer privacy through mechanisms such as differential privacy.

This project explores how LEAP compares to existing solutions, surveying features that pertain to the utility, effectiveness, extensibility, and learnability of each system. Dimensions such as the mechanism through which privacy is offered, distribution architecture, query language, data source assumptions, popularity in healthcare or machine learning settings, methods of interaction available to users, maintenance status, deployability, and target user demographic were surveyed. A multi-dimensional approach to analysis is also taken to visualize the comparison between different systems through BCG matrix plots.
